EC2- elstic compute cloud 
is the service provided by AWS which provides service for creating VM
virtual machines which is called as instance.

Like if i wnat to deploy my application on linux machine I can create
Linux instance.

If I want to set up an windows environment i can setup windows Instance.

How to give that OS?

for that OS setup we have AMI (amazon machine image)
which helps you to set up that OS.

on the top check region: select N.Virginia (us-east-1)

Instances --> click on Launch Instance
name of Instance --> LinuxMachine
select Image --> Amazon linux (ligh weight)
Instance Type --> t2.micro  (free ware)
Key pair --> encryption key with the help of that we can connect
to instance from local machine
        --> create new key pair
        --> name: linuxkey
        --> RSA and type .pem
        --> cretae key pair
    once its created will be downloaded to your local system (keep safe)
Network Settings: Firewall Settings
    create security group
    click on edit
    give name of security group: linuxkey
    set up rules to open some port for conectivity
    1. ssh coming by default keep as it is
    2. click on add security group rule
        select HTTP 
        source type: custome
        Source: 0.0.0.0/0

Storage keep 8 GB 
Right hand side verify the summary and then click on
launch instance.

you can click on instance ID and check instance status
public and private IPs too.

How to connect with this Instance?

option 1: Direct connect
    select instance and you can see connect option on the top.
    click on it.
    on the first tab EC2 instance connect option 
    scroll down and at last right botton corner you can see connect button
    click on that.

    now lets setup one application
    sudo yum update -y
    sudo yum install nginx -y
    sudo systemctl start nginx
    sudo systemctl enable nginx
    sudo systemctl status nginx
    (if status is running open public ip in browser and check
    default page of nginx must be running)

    now move to the default location of nginx index.html file
    cd /usr/share/nginx/html
    sudo nano index.html

    save it and refresh your browser.

Option 2: connect with SSH client

    copy the key file which is downloaded by creating instance
    copy it at some safe place
    created folder named cloud and paste key there.

    one it in cmd and then type wsl.

    then check ls command and see key is available or not.
    then set permission: chmod 400 "linuxkey.pem"

    run ssh command: ssh -i "linuxkey.pem" ec2-user@ec2-3-90-0-213.compute-1.amazonaws.com

    (you can copy commands from instance --> connect --> 3rd tab SSH client)

    in case if you are getting permission issue run ssh command with sudo